The authorization model for the SERV Portal web site is based on people, roles,
groups, and privileges:

People are individuals who are, or have at some point been, affiliated with
SERV.  Each person has a name and contact information, and a list of roles that
they hold.  Each person may also have a username and password allowing them to
log into the web site.  (See the note about who can log in, below.)

Groups are groups of people (teams, classes, etc.) who can be addressed as a
unit.  One can view the list of people in a group, send emails or text messages
to a group, invite a group to an event, etc.  Each group has a name and
optionally a group email list name.

Privileges are things that people can do to groups.  There are six:
  "Member": the membership of a group is defined as the set of people who have
      "Member" privilege on that group.
  "Roster": people with this privilege on a group are able to see the list of
      members of that group.
  "Contact": people with this privilege on a group are able to see the contact
      information for each of the members of that group.
  "Admin": people with this privilege on a group are able to add and remove
      members of the group.  This also means they are able to add people to the
      web site.
  "Events": people with this privilege on a group are able to invite the group
      to events.  This also means they can create events, and record attendance
      at events.  To modify or delete an existing event, a person must have this
      privilege on every group invited to the event.
  "Texts": people with this privilege on a group are able to send text messages
      to the group (assuming the group supports text messaging at all).

Roles are the glue between people, privileges, and groups.  It would be too
difficult to manage the privileges for each person individually.  Instead,
privileges are granted on a role-to-group basis, and people inherit the
privileges granted to the roles they hold.  In addition, roles have names which
help explain what the people who hold them do in SERV.  Some roles have a flag
indicating that they can only be held by a single person.

To illustrate all this, we will use Alex as an example.  Alex holds the
following roles:
    CERT Team Alpha Group 1 Lead
    CERT Training Assistant Lead
Both of these are individual roles: he's the only one who holds them.  Note that
their names (which appear next to his name on the web site) are very specific
descriptions of mhat he does.

Because he holds the CERT Team Alpha Group 1 Lead role, he has the following
privileges that were granted to that role:
    "Member" of CERT Deployment Teams, CERT Team Alpha, CERT Volunteers, and
        SERV Volunteers.
    "Roster" and "Contact" on CERT Deployment Teams and CERT Team Alpha.

Because he holds the CERT Training Assistant Lead role, he has the following
additional privileges that were granted to that role:
    "Member" of CERT Trainers, CERT Volunteers, SERV Leads, and SERV Volunteers.
    "Roster" on every past CERT class, and on the aggregate groups called "CERT
        Classes (past)", "CERT Classes (all)", and "CERT Graduates".
    "Roster", "Contact", "Admin", and "Events" on the current and every future
        CERT class, and on CERT Trainers.
    "Roster", "Contact", and "Events" on the aggregate group called "CERT
        Classes (all)".  (He doesn't have "Admin" on this group because one
        shouldn't add or remove members from an aggregate group.)
    "Roster" and "Contact" on SERV Leads.

The webmaster is a special role which irrevocably has all privileges on all
groups.  The webmaster can also do other things that no one else can, such as
change a person's username or set an insecure password.

In order to be able to log in to the web site, a person must satisfy all of
the following criteria:
  - They must have a username assigned.  (If they have one, it will usually be
    their email address.)
  - They must have a password.
  - They must not be a member of the special "Disabled Users" group.
  - They must have at least one role.
  - They must not have had too many recent failed login attempts.
Going forward, all new people added to the web site will have usernames and
passwords and will be able to log in.  However, many historical CERT students do
not have a username or password.
