Each event can have:
  - Zero or more "shifts" that people can sign up for (see below).
  - A block of descriptive text for the signup page, giving details on the
    requirements and expectations.

Each shift has:
  - A time range, which should fall within the time range for the event.  The
    time ranges of different shifts can overlap.
  - An optional task, useful to distinguish between different assignments or
    roles during the same time period.
  - Optional minimum and maximum numbers of people who can sign up.
  - A list of people who have signed up.
  - A list of people who have declined.

The system sends an automatic email whenever a shift opens up (i.e., is created,
or goes from full to not-full).  The recipients of the email are people who:
  - are in the one of the groups invited to the event,
  - are not already signed up for a shift overlapping the same time range, and
  - have not declined the shift.
The email is also sent to all leaders of the event org, and to admin, regardless
of whether they've signed up.  The email is debounced by an hour, allowing for
multiple shifts to be opened up and sent in the same email, and preventing
emails for shifts that are open only momentarily.

The email contains a link to the Signups tab of the Event pane of the website,
with a token for limited self-login similar to that used for hours tracking.
People can also visit the Signups tab manually.

The Signups tab lists all current and future events if they have shifts and are
visible to the viewer (i.e., the viewer is a leader of the event org or a member
of a role invited to the event).  For each such event, it gives a heading with
the event date and name; the descriptive text for signups, and then a stacked
checkbox list.  The checkbox list has one box for each shift, plus a "Decline"
checkbox.  Next to the checkboxes for each shift are the shift time range, the
shift task if any, and symbols indicating the shift capacity.  At the bottom of
the form is a Save button.

Although the checkboxes are styled as checkboxes, some are mutually exclusive.
Turning on the box for a shift turns off the boxes for any other shifts with
overlapping time ranges, and also turns off the "Decline" checkbox.  Turning on
the "Decline" checkbox turns off all others.  Turning off all checkboxes for an
event turns on the "Decline" checkbox.

When the numbers are small, the symbols next to each shift are person
silhouettes, one per person.  People who have signed up are green with an
overlaid checkmark.  Unfilled slots that are needed to meet the minimum are
gray.  Unfilled slots that are allowed but not needed are outlines.  However,
this model is used only up to 10 silhouettes maximum.  Above that, textual
descriptions of the counts are used instead.  In either case, clicking on the
symbols will open a dialog showing the actual names of those signed up.  This
dialog is read-only except for leaders of the event org, who can add and remove
people from the list.
