The "Events" portion of the SERV website is among the most complex.  It displays
a calendar and information about events of interest to SERV volunteers.  It
handles attendance tracking and course credit, volunteer hours tracking, and
signups for work shifts.

The three basic object types are Event, Task, and Shift.  An Event is something
that appears on the calendar.  A Task is a portion of an Event with volunteer
hours tracking, attendance tracking, and/or credit tracking.  A Shift is a
portion of a Task with explicit signups.  Every Event has at least one Task;
some have multiple Tasks.  A Task that supports explicit signups has one or more
Shifts.

== Events ==

Every Event has a date.  Real-world events that span multiple days are
represented in the data model as multiple Events, one per day.  (There is no
data model tie between such events.  One might be added in the future.)  Every
Event has a time span, expressed with a starting and ending time on the Event's
date.  Often these will be the starting time of its first Task and the ending
time of its last Task, but this is not required.  For example, a public Event's
time span might be the opening hours for the event as published to the general
public, but it might have setup Tasks that occur before the start of those hours
or cleanup Tasks that occur after them.

If the starting and ending time of an Event are both midnight, the Event is
considered an "all day" event and times are not shown.

Every Event has a name.  No two Events on the same day may have the same name.
Events may have an associated Venue, activation number, and/or descriptive text.
Events may have connections to zero or more folders in the Files area, where
files related to the event are stored.

Every Event has at least one Task.  Tasks are described below.

Events can track volunteer hours.  Most volunteer hours are tracked on a
per-Task basis (see below).  However, an Event has multiple Tasks for which a
particular volunteer can record hours, that volunteer can also record hours for
the Event that are not associated with any Task.

Events can be created, and Tasks can be added to them, by any organization
leader.  Events can be edited or deleted only by people with organization leader
privilege in the associated organizations of every Task in the Event.

== Tasks ==

Every Task has a name, which must be unique among all Tasks for that Event.  The
default name (primarily used for Tasks that are the only Task in their Event) is
"Tracking".

Every Task has an associated organization.  Only leaders of that organization
can create, edit or delete the Task.

Tasks have a (possibly empty) set of roles controlling who participates in the
Task, and a (possibly empty) set of Shifts for which people can sign up.  If a
Task has Shifts, only people who hold one of the associated roles can sign up to
participate.  If a Task has no Shifts, everyone holding any of the associated
roles is considered a participant.

Tasks may have associated descriptive text.  Tasks have a flag indicating
whether participation in them is covered by state Disaster Service Worker
Volunteer Program insurance.  (The classification of DSW registration needed for
this coverage is implied by the Task's organization.)

Tasks have a flag indicating whether volunteer hours can be recorded for them.
(This will be disabled for things like parties.)  When enabled, volunteer hours
can be recorded by anyone who holds a participating or eligible role (whether or
not they explicitly signed up).  Leaders of the Task organization may record
volunteer hours for the Task for any person, even if they are not otherwise a
participant in the Task.

Any Task may track sign-ins.  A leader in the Task organization may record who
signed in for that Task.  Any person can be marked as signed in, even if they
are not otherwise a participant in the Task.  This implies that the actual
sign-in sheet is on file in an appropriate place (usually the Activations folder
in the OES SharePoint).

Any Task may track completion credits.  (These are typically used for students
in multi-session classes.)  A leader in the Task organization may record who
should receive credit for completion of the Task.  Any person can be marked as
receiving credit, even if they are not otherwise a participant in the Task.

== Shifts ==

Every Shift has a time range and an optional venue.  No two Shifts of the same
Task may have overlapping time ranges at the same venue.  No two Shifts of the
same Task without venues may have overlapping time ranges.  The time range of a
Shift must start and end on the date of the containing Event, but it need not
fall within the time range of the Event.

Each Shift may have a desired minimum number of signups and/or a maximum number
of signups.

Each Shift tracks the ordered list of people who have explicitly signed up, and
the set of people who have explicitly declined to sign up.  People can
explicitly sign up for the Task if all of these are true:
  - they are not signed up for another Shift at an overlapping time (on any Task
    of any Event)
  - the Shift has not yet ended
  - they hold one of the roles associated with the Task
  - explicit signups for the Task are enabled
  - their signup would not exceed the maximum number of signups for the Shift
Leaders of the Task organization can sign up any person for the Shift.  For
leaders signing people up, the first constraint applies but the others are
not enforced.  Leaders can also remove signups.

== Calendar Display ==

The calendar is displayed in two forms: a list form, which displays all Events
in a particular year in a chronological list, and a grid form, which displays
all Events in a particular month in a traditional calendar grid.

There is one special type of Event which never appears on the calendar (the
"Other Hours" event on the last day of every month).  With that exception, all
Events are visible to all logged-in users; there is no concept of a private
Event.

The calendar shows a set of colored dots next to each Event, indicating the SERV
organization(s) it's associated with.  This is the union of the associated
organizations of the Event's Tasks.

An Event's Venue, if any, may be displayed in the list form of the calendar if
space is sufficient.

== Event Details Page ==

Clicking on an Event in the calendar displays its full details and, for
appropriate users, allows them to be edited.  The format is similar to that of
the Person details page: a heading, followed by a series of bubbles, each with
its own title bar and Edit button.

The heading for an Event page shows the event name in large bold font, and its
date and activation number underneath it.

The bubbles on the Event details page include:

  - A "Details" bubble.  This contains the event time range, location, and
    descriptive text.  The Edit dialog for this bubble allows editing the name,
    date, and activation number as well.
  - A bubble for each associated Files folder, giving the contents of that
    Folder.
  - A bubble for each Task.  This contains the details of the Task as well as
    signups, volunteer hours, sign-ins, and credits for the Task.
  - A bubble for "Other Hours".  This allows entry of volunteer hours unrelated
    to a Task.

Details on each of these bubbles are in the sections below.

=== Heading ===

The page heading has the event name in a large, bold font.  It is preceded by
colored dots representing all of the organizations associated with the event's
Tasks.  If the event has an activation number, this follows after the name in
large, normal weight font (as the callsign is handled on the People details
page).  If all Tasks in the Event are marked as eligible for DSW, a DSW flag
appears next to the activation number (or name, if there is no activation
number).  The next line has the event date, written out long form (Sunday,
November 12, 2023).

There is no Edit button next to this heading.  However, at the right margin,
there is an Actions drop-down with a menu of actions for appropriately
privileged people, including:
  - Delete
  - Copy
  - Attach Folder
  - Sign-In Sheet
Other actions may be added in the future, e.g., for contacting participants,
advertising sign-ups, etc.

=== Details Bubble ===

The title of this bubble is always "Details".  It contains:
  - The event time range, unless both start and end are midnight.
  - The event venue, if set; otherwise, the venue shared by all Tasks, if any.
  - The descriptive text for the event, if any.
If none of the above are available, and the viewing user lacks edit capability,
the Details bubble does not appear.

If the viewing user has leader privileges in all of the organizations associated
with the Event's Tasks, then an Edit button appears in the heading.  The Edit
dialog allows editing the event name, date, time range, venue, and descriptive
text.  The activation number is editable if the viewing user is an admin leader.

=== Folder Bubble ===

For each folder attached to the Event, there will be a folder bubble, with the
title given when the folder was attached.  Next to the title is an arrow icon,
which when clicked, moves to the actual Files page with that folder open.

The contents of the folder bubble will be the contents of the attached folder,
displayed the same as on the Files page.  However, subfolders are not shown; it
is a flat file list only.  If the viewing user has the appropriate privileges,
the list supports drag/drop and the Add File and Add URL buttons, but it does
not have Add Folder.

If the viewing user has leader privileges in all of the organizations associated
with the Event's Tasks, then an Edit button appears in the heading.  The Edit
dialog allows editing the folder bubble title.  It also has a button to detach
the folder from the event.

=== Task Bubble ===

There is a Task bubble for each Task of the event.  Task bubbles are shown only
to people who hold a participating or eligible role; who are leaders in the
Task's organization; or who have recorded hours, sign-up, sign-in, or credit
for the Task.

The title of the bubble is the name of the Task; if the Task name is empty
(which only happens when there is a single Task), the title is "Tracking".  If
the Task is marked as eligible for DSW, and there are other tasks that aren't so
marked, a DSW flag appears next to the title.  If the Tasks of the Event have
multiple organizations, the colored dot appropriate for this Task's organization
appears in the heading before the title.

The Task bubble starts by giving the time range, venue, and descriptive text
for the task.  However, the time range and/or venue are omitted if they are the
same for all tasks (and were therefore shown in the Details bubble).

Next, the Task bubble lists the participating and eligible roles.  If there are
any which the viewing user doesn't hold, they are displayed partially greyed.

Next, the Task bubble shows the viewing user's recorded volunteer hours for the
Task, in one of the following variants:
  - If the Task has not yet finished, nothing is shown.
  - If volunteer hours collection is disabled and no hours are recorded for the
    viewing user, nothing is shown.
  - If the collection period has ended, the number of hours recorded is
    displayed with no editing capability.
  - Otherwise, an entry field is displayed for entry of the number of hours for
    the viewing user.


If the Task is in the past, and supports volunteer hours collection, the
volunteer hours are shown next, as follows:
  - If the collection threshold is still open
Hours
Signups
Signins
Credits




  These include
its time span, name, organizations, venue, activation number, and descriptive
text as described above.  If an Event has only one Task, and that Task's
"Covered by DSW" flag is set, this will be indicated at the top of the Event
detail page as well.

After the whole-Event information is displayed, each of the Event's Tasks are
displayed.  The display of a Task may include a form that allows editing of
volunteer hours and/or signups for the Task, depending on user privileges and
other factors as described below.  Tasks are displayed in the order selected by
the Event author, which defaults to the order in which they were created.

=== Task Details ===

When an Event has multiple Tasks, the display of each Task starts with a header
including the colored dot for the Task's organization, and the Task's name, time
span, optional venue, and optional "Covered by DSW" flag.

If the Event has only one Task, its header is not displayed.  The Task is
required to have the same time span and venue as the parent Event, and the
Task's name is ignored.  The colored dot for the organization and the DSW flag
are displayed in the header of the Event as noted above.

If the Task has descriptive text, it is displayed after the Task header (or, for
single-Task events, after the descriptive text for the Event).

After the Task header and descriptive text, if any, information is provided
regarding role assignments, signups, attendance, and volunteer hours for the
Task, as described in the sections below.

==== Implicit Task Signups ====

If the viewer holds a role that is marked as being automatically signed up for
the Task, the page will note that, telling them that they are signed up and
which role(s) of theirs caused that to happen.  Note that they have no option to
remove that signup.

If any other roles are marked as being automatically signed up for the Task, the
page will say that, naming those roles.  (Roles already mentioned because the
viewer holds them will be omitted, to avoid redundancy.)

==== Explicit Task Signups ====

Two different displays of explicit Task signups are possible:  privileged and
non-privileged.

The privileged display is shown to leaders of the Task's organization, and to
holders of any role marked as being allowed to see the explicit signups.  The
privileged display is a numbered list of names of people signed up, in the order
that they signed up.  It is shown only if (a) the Task has people signed up, (b)
it has roles marked eligible to sign up, or (c) the viewer is a leader of the
Task's organization.  For leaders of the Task's organization, a button appears
below the list allowing them to sign up someone else.

The privileged display has additional features if signups for the Task are
enabled and the Task starts in the future.  In that case:
  - If the number of signups is less than the desired minimum number for the
    Task, at least that many lines are printed in the list, with empty lines
    being shown for unfilled spots.  They are marked or colored to make it clear
    that more signups are needed.
  - If the Task has a maximum number of signups, at least that many lines are
    printed in the list, with empty lines being shown for unfilled spots.
  - If the viewer is not signed up and can sign up (see below), at least one
    empty line is shown, and the first empty line has a button allowing them to
    add themselves to the list.
  - If the viewer is signed up, a button is shown next to their name allowing
    them to cancel their signup.  (This happens even if signups for the Task are
    disabled; they can still cancel as long as it's in the future.)

The non-privileged display starts with a series of person silhouettes, as
follows:
  - If the Task has a maximum number of signups, one silhouette is displayed for
    each place; the silhouettes are filled in for places that are taken, and
    outlined in red for places that need to be filled to hit any desired
    minimum.
  - If the Task has a desired minimum but no maximum, one silhouette is
    displayed for each person signed up and/or place that needs to be filled.
    Places that need to be filled are outlined in red.  If signups for the Task
    are enabled and the Task starts in the future, the set of silhouettes will
    end with an empty one (adding it if need be), followed by an ellipsis.
  - If the Task has no desired minimum or maximum, one silhouette is displayed
    for each person signed up.  If signups for the Task are enabled and the Task
    starts in the future, the set of silhouettes will end with an additional
    empty one, followed by an ellipsis.

If the viewer is signed up, this will be noted following the silhouettes.  If
the Task starts in the future, they are given a button to cancel their signup.

If the viewer is not signed up and any silhouettes were displayed, the fact that
they are not signed up is noted.  If they can sign up (see below), they are
given a button to do so.

A person can sign up for a Task if all of the following are true:
  1. The person does not hold a role that is implicitly signed up for the task
  2. The person is not signed up for any other task on any other event at an
     overlapping time
  3. The task is in the future
  4. Explicit self-signups are enabled for the task
  5. The person holds a role that is marked as eligible to sign up for the task
  6. The number of explicit signups is less than the maximum for the task
When an organization leader is signing someone else up for a Task, conditions 1
and 2 still apply but the other conditions are not enforced.

==== Volunteer Hours and Attendance ====

The Task details describe, and perhaps allow editing of, the viewer's volunteer
hours and attendance flags for the Task, as follows.

  - If the Task hasn't started yet:  nothing is shown.
  - Else if the Task has started, volunteer hours collection for the Task is
    enabled, and the volunteer hours collection period containing the Task is in
    progress:
    - An entry field for volunteer hours is presented.
    - The status of the person's Attended and Credited flags for the Task is
      displayed (see below).
  - Else if the viewer has recorded hours for the Task:
    - The number of recorded hours is presented.
    - The status of the person's Attended and Credited flags for the Task is
      displayed (see below).
  - Else:
    - The status of the person's Attended and Credited flags for the Task is
      displayed (see below).

For display of the flags, the rule is:  if the flag is set for the viewer, say
so; otherwise, if the flag is set for any person, say that the flag is not set
for this viewer; otherwise, say nothing.

==== Volunteer Hours ====

If a task's "Report Hours" flag is set, volunteer hours are collected and
reported for the Task.  Collection starts when the Task starts, and ends when
volunteer hours have been reported to the city (usually at midnight on the 11th
of the month following).  During that period, any volunteer (that is, any person
with a Volgistics ID) can report hours for the Task, through an entry field in
the Task details (or through their Activity page).  After that period is over,
if the viewer reported any hours for the Task, the details will say so.

Leaders of the Task's organization can mark people as having attended the Task,
as described below.  If volunteer hours are being collected for the Task, and a
volunteer is marked as having attended who has not yet reported any hours for
the Task, the system automatically records their volunteer hours for the Task as
being equal to the duration of the Task.  If they have already recorded hours,
they are not changed.

It is also possible for people to report volunteer hours not associated with any
visible task.  To accommodate this, special Events are created with an "Other
Hours" flag.  This flag causes them not to be visible in the calendar.  These
Events have one Task for each organization, and volunteers can record hours for
those Tasks on their Activity page.  These Tasks are handled specially in that
volunteer hours can be recorded for them only between their start and end times.
Usually one such Event is created in each month.

==== Attendance ====

For some Tasks, it's important to record who was in attendance and/or who got
"credit" for the Task.  (These are not necessarily the same thing; for example,
an auditor for a class is in attendance but does not get credit.)  Organization
leaders can set "attended" and/or "credited" flags for people on the event.  As
noted above, if a person being marked as "attended" is a volunteer, and
volunteer hours are being collected for the Task, and they have not already
recorded any, volunteer hours will be recorded for them covering the duration of
the Task.

In cases where a person has been marked as "attended" or "credited" for a Task,
but does not have any volunteer hours recorded, the Task details will say this.
(This could happen if the Task is not enabled for volunteer hours collection, or
if they were marked as "attended" after the collection period ended.)

== Event Edit Page ==

Starts with a regular form with:
  - Event name
  - Activation number
  - Start date and time
  - End date and time   (end date defaults to start date)
  - Venue choice
  - Descriptive text

Then a split.  If there are multiple tasks:
  - Table with task details and an Edit button next to each editable one.  Edit
    button opens task edit dialog described below.
  - Add Task button under table, also opens task edit dialog.
If there is only one task:
  - Task edit dialog contents, minus a few fields, not in a dialog box.

Then the closing button bar, including Save, Cancel, maybe Delete, and maybe
Add Task.

